# Quantized-Movement-Sequence
(Under Construction)

## Motivation
Explaining what motivated this exploration is challenging. My background is not in mathmatics, and so I rely strongly on visual intuitions and only fall back on mathmatical formalism as a last resort. Having said this, I'll attempt to illustrate why the question was asked in the first place.

Consider a universe in which there exists a sort of minimal distance. That is, we have a discrete unit of length such that all greater lengths can be described as some integer multiple of our base distance, but anything smaller or a fractional multiple is meaningless. For us, the useful image is the integer lattice, which we'll constrain to be low dimensional for ease of visualization, like a 2D grid of evenly spaced points where you can be at one point or it's neighbor, but never in between. 

Now consider we want to describe a particle traveling through this grid and the path that it will take. Given our constraints, remember that our path can always be described as a sequence of discrete steps: we can move a single unit of distance at a time, in a single dimension. The convention here is to discuss the **velocity** of the particle, or the ratio of dimensional components, and we'll borrow vector notation to make this clear. For example, if a particle p has velocity of [5 8] then we know that for every 5 units of motion in the x direction, there are a corresponding 8 units of motion in the y direction. 

Here is where the question begins to unfold. In our continuous universe, we observe that particles traveling through space take a straight path. If we plot our velocity of [5 8], what we have is a direct path from the origin at (0,0) to the terminal of (5,8). However, this particular example has an interesting property: the two values are coprime, and as a consequence, we'll notice our continuous straight line intersects with no points along the integer lattice. In our discrete universe with minimal distance, we can only travel along points on the integer lattice since we can only take steps from one integer point to another. We're interested in describing the path through discrete space from the origin to (5, 8), and we can do so by taking any combination of 5 x steps and 8 y steps, but it's obvious that whatever discrete path we take will have some diversion from the 'ideal' direct path taken along the continuous line. So then: what discrete path can be taken by a particle with velocity [5 8] such that it most closely approximates the ideal path? Is there some algorithm by which we can always determine what order to take the correct amount of unit steps to reach that approximation? What does it mean to approximate a path, and what properties do we expect to see from an approximation?

The course of this exploration ranges from combinatorics to vector normalization to the so-called "staircase paradox" and beyond. Ultimately, it searches out the boundaries between continuous and discrete spaces and offers solutions to problems which have been endlessly interesting to me. 

## Problem
Given some particle p with velocity [x1 x2 ... xn], what sequence of unit steps most closely approximates the continuous path? 

# Definition: What does it mean to approximate a path? 
The ideal path from (0,0) to (5,8) can be thought of in a few ways. It's length is the euclidean norm of the vector [5 8], which is roughly 9.43. In this context, we're talking about the hypotenuse of a triangle with sidelengths 5 and 8. In this view, we have the first example for how to think about approximation. While we can't construct the perfect diagonal using our unit steps, the triangle provides a clear and straightforward discrete path along it's sides. We're seeking a path from (0,0) to (5,8), so the first obvious attempt in describing a sequence is to first take all of our x steps, followed by all of our y steps, or vice versa. So, how well do the sides of a triangle approximate the diagonal of it's hypotenuse? Not well. For one thing, consider that each point along our sequence
